README.md, before:

# Schedule-Message
A Discord bot written by raymater : schedule a message to be sent.

## Dependencies
This bot works with [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)

You need to have these libraries :
* **[Discord.js](https://discord.js.org/)**
* **[FS](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html)** - included in Node.js
* **[ini](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ini)**
* **[forever](https://www.npmjs.com/package/forever)** - recommanded

## Get started
**1- Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)**


**2- Download bot files with [Git](https://git-scm.com/) :**
```
git clone https://github.com/raymater/Schedule-Message.git
```

**3- Install libraries :**
Install Discord.js :
```
npm install discord.js
```
Install ini :
```
npm i ini
```

(Recommanded) Install [forever](https://www.npmjs.com/package/forever) library :
```
npm install forever -g
```


**4- Make sure that messages.json file is readable and writtable.**


**5- Create and configure your bot account :**
* Go to [Discord Developper Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications).
* Click on "New Application" button, enter your bot name and confirm.
* Click on "Bot" tab, then on "Add bot" button and confirm.
* In the "Token" section, click on "Copy" button.
* Edit the config.ini file and paste your token.
* (optional) - Edit the config.ini file and set your language (language code are same as translate files)


**6- Invite your bot in a Discord server :**
* In your bot settings in [Discord Developper Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications), click on "OAuth2" tab.
* In "OAuth2 URL Generator" section, in "Scopes" list, check "bot" checkbox.
* In "Bot Permissions" list, you have to check these checkboxes : 
    * View Channels
    * Send Messages
    * Embeded Links
    * Read Message History
* Copy your link generated in "Scopes" section and paste it in a new tab on your web browser.
* Once you are authenticated in Discord, select your server.


**7- Start the bot :**

With Node command :
```
node scheduled.js
```

Or if you want to run the script continuously in the background, you should to use [forever](https://www.npmjs.com/package/forever) :
```
forever start scheduled.js
```

## Using the bot (commands) :

**Schedule a delayed sending of a message :**
```
*schedule [date] [time] [channel] [message]
```
*- The date and time must be in the following format ``YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:SS``*

**List of scheduled messages :**
```
*schedulelist
```

**Delete an existing message by its id :**
```
*scheduledelete [id]
```
*- You can get ID of messages by using ``*schedulelist`` command.*

Commit message:

Ready to use bot link

README.md, after:

# Schedule-Message
A Discord bot written by raymater : schedule a message to be sent.

## Invite the bot in your Discord Server !
This is an instance of Schedule-Message bot ready to use :
(https://discord.com/api/oauth2/authorize?client_id=802637509523406898&permissions=84992&scope=bot)

## Dependencies
This bot works with [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)

You need to have these libraries :
* **[Discord.js](https://discord.js.org/)**
* **[FS](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html)** - included in Node.js
* **[ini](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ini)**
* **[forever](https://www.npmjs.com/package/forever)** - recommanded

## Get started
**1- Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)**


**2- Download bot files with [Git](https://git-scm.com/) :**
```
git clone https://github.com/raymater/Schedule-Message.git
```

**3- Install libraries :**
Install Discord.js :
```
npm install discord.js
```
Install ini :
```
npm i ini
```

(Recommanded) Install [forever](https://www.npmjs.com/package/forever) library :
```
npm install forever -g
```


**4- Make sure that messages.json file is readable and writtable.**


**5- Create and configure your bot account :**
* Go to [Discord Developper Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications).
* Click on "New Application" button, enter your bot name and confirm.
* Click on "Bot" tab, then on "Add bot" button and confirm.
* In the "Token" section, click on "Copy" button.
* Edit the config.ini file and paste your token.
* (optional) - Edit the config.ini file and set your language (language code are same as translate files)


**6- Invite your bot in a Discord server :**
* In your bot settings in [Discord Developper Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications), click on "OAuth2" tab.
* In "OAuth2 URL Generator" section, in "Scopes" list, check "bot" checkbox.
* In "Bot Permissions" list, you have to check these checkboxes : 
    * View Channels
    * Send Messages
    * Embeded Links
    * Read Message History
* Copy your link generated in "Scopes" section and paste it in a new tab on your web browser.
* Once you are authenticated in Discord, select your server.


**7- Start the bot :**

With Node command :
```
node scheduled.js
```

Or if you want to run the script continuously in the background, you should to use [forever](https://www.npmjs.com/package/forever) :
```
forever start scheduled.js
```

## Using the bot (commands) :

**Schedule a delayed sending of a message :**
```
*schedule [date] [time] [channel] [message]
```
*- The date and time must be in the following format ``YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:SS``*

**List of scheduled messages :**
```
*schedulelist
```

**Delete an existing message by its id :**
```
*scheduledelete [id]
```
*- You can get ID of messages by using ``*schedulelist`` command.*
